Hello everybody. Welcome to a new episode of the
Decent. I'm your host, Ricard Loops. And today I'm
joined by Doctor Iris Mouse. She is professor in
the Department of Psychology at the University of California
Berkeley. Her research focuses on emotions and emotion regulation
with an emphasis on their links to psychological and
physical health. And today we're going to talk about
emotion, emotion regulation and some other related things like
reappraisal emotion goals and also the potential psychological effects
of us focusing too much on happiness. So, Doctor
Mouse, welcome to the show. It's a pleasure to
everyone.
Thank you so much for having me.
So I mean, uh about emotion, what is emotion
exactly? I, I mean, because I would imagine that
uh in different scientific disciplines, people would approach emotion
in at least slightly different ways. So, in your
work, how do you approach it? And what is
basically perhaps the role and the importance of emotion
for our overall psychology,
let's say you hit on a, in a very
understated way you hit on one of the biggest
debates in in the field actually. Um AND so
saying that there's slightly different approaches is little bit
of an understatement. Um But so the simple answer
to your question, what is an emotion is that
um I define emotions as responses um that are
um valuated in nature. So, have a good versus
bad um component um that are in response to
internal or external stimuli. Um And um I consider
emotions as involving um the whole human. So there's
experiences behaviors and physiological aspects to an emotional response
um that tend to be at least um loosely
coupled with one another. Um So, um that's how
I think of emotions. So I alluded to there's
um big divergences across researchers about exactly the nature
of emotional response. Um And the nature of how
the various emotional components relate to one another. But
I find this a good starting point. Um Yeah.
Uh AND so, uh about the second part of
my question and when it comes to our overall
psychology, what would you say is the importance of
emotions? What is the role that emotions play there?
And particularly since we're going to focus a lot
on psychological and physical health, I mean, basically, how
important are emotions in that regard?
Yeah. So I think emotions are absolutely essential um
to all aspects of health, um psychological, physical health.
Um And um really, if we think about um
emotions, um they're so integral to all aspects of
human functioning and human psychology, I sometimes sort of
in my courses challenge students to think of any
time when they experience uh no emotion at all.
Um And so, obviously, we can think of times
when we're not very emotional. Um But um I,
I think that um it's hard to think of
times when we have absolutely no emotion at all.
Um And then of course, many of life's biggest
and most consequential events um are characterized by an
abundance um sometimes overabundance of um rich um emotional
experiences. Um So, in a way, I think emotions
are absolutely integral to um psychological and physical health.
Um AND all of human um psychology, and it's
interesting actually that in a way psychology has little
bit ignored emotion um more so than other aspects
of psychology. So, cognition has been in the field
um topic of research um for um longer um
in modern empirical psychology. Here comes the cat. Um
And um we can talk about maybe why that
is. Um BUT it has changed. So in the
last 1020 years, uh emotions have uh very much
so become um a topic of research interest appropriately.
So, um and um there's been a recent paper
even that has sort of described what they call
the rise of activism in um psychology,
which is actually very interesting because I mean, at
least by now, I, isn't it? I mean, I,
I perhaps consensually is too strong a word to
use here, to use it to use here. Sorry.
But isn't it the case that by now? We,
we've already sort of established that there's no strict
division between emotion and cognition or emotion and reason
because we actually need emotion to even be able
to reason.
Hm. Yeah. So I think there's kind of two
really interesting parts to, to that statement one way
is that I think, and that's maybe the simpler
way to think about that um distinction between cognition
and emotion. And that's the idea that they mutually
constitute one another. So, um in other words, how
we think directly shapes how we feel and how
we feel directly shapes how we think. Um So
there's a mutual interdependence if you will and they're
very much so intertwined. But in that way of
thinking, we can still distinguish between uh more cognitive
and more emotional processes. Um But there's a second
way um that's less straightforward of thinking about that
distinction. And that basically sort of says, um you
basically wanna do away with the distinction such that
um responses that we call emotional in nature really
um generalize um processes that we sometimes call cognitive
um and apply them to um um to how
humans respond. And so, for example, Lisa Feldman Barrett
is a researcher who I think has advanced a
model that's more aligned with that way of thinking
um or by basically general processes um constitute both
emotional and cognitive responses. Um In my research, I
still um find it useful um to, to make
the and maintain a distinction, at least in principle
between more cognitive um appraisal processes thinking um versus
more emotional um processes. Um And um yeah, I
find it helpful. Um And also I think there's
some um grounding and in empirical science to um
distinguish those types of processes, even if we say,
say that they're very much so intertwined with one
another.
OK. And why do you think that at least
historically, people have focused more on cognition than emotion?
Um That's a great question. Um I'm not a
historian of science. Um But I think there's um
one answer to that question is just that it
has been in, in incredibly difficult to do empirical
science on emotions. And so I think uh quite
frankly, researchers um were um unsure about how we
could even study um these um very ephemeral processes
um of the mind. Um And um sort of
simply were hesitant, hesitant to, to do so until
um I think William James was sort of an
early precursor on sort of at least a talking
in a principled and um at least in principle
um empirically accessible way about um feelings and emotions.
Um And then, um of course, um Sylvan Tomkins
and Paul Ekman, starting in the fifties and the
sixties, um 19 fifties, 19 sixties um um put
emotion signs out on the map. They were the
first ones to really start conducting um empirical work
as we understand it today um on emotions. And
that I think started little bit of a, it,
it sort of opened the floodgates, I think because
they were the ones to sort of step up.
And of course, their work drew a lot of
criticism. But I think it was really important to
just show that you can, you have to get
started somewhere even if it's a really simplified first
approach. Um And so that, that I think really
analyzed the field into starting somewhere and then going
from there. Um And today we ended up with
just a immensely rich um body of research. Yeah.
And, and I, I mean, yeah, I, I, I'm
not sure if this uh has played a big
role or not, but I would imagine that also,
at least in our Western tradition, I mean, people
have been looking down for a long time on
emotions. I mean, it's basically about uh reason and
about being reasonable and about taming your emotions and
ideally donating them because I mean, apparently people thought
that if you could do that, you would reason
even better, even though we now know that you
can't even reason without emotions. But anyway, at least
there's some legacy of that kind of thinking about
uh emotions, I guess.
Yeah. And so, and that very much so um
um reappears in the research today. Um And I'm
sure we'll talk about that um later. Um But
that distinction between reason and emotion, of course, goes
back a long time. There's the platonic ideas about
sort of, um, human passions, um, hijacking human reason.
And ideally we should be guided by mostly reason
and not so much the passions. Um, OF course,
there's a Aristotelian view that's different from that and
that doesn't sort of see emotions as just negative,
um, harmful animal like, but rather, um, thinks about
emotions, I think in a much more, um, in
a, that's much more aligned with modern thinking about
emotions. And so Aristotle um proposed something that's um
more aligned to sort of like feeling, um the
right amount of an emotion in the right way
and to the right extent as being um conducive
to, to the good life. Um So it's a
view of emotions that's not so starkly negative animal
like um and um rather, like, we do have
to modulate emotions as the view, but we can
still use them and they're very important um for
uh for making decisions and conducting in our life
in a way that's uh virtuous and, and a
good life. Um And that view reappeared of course,
in various different shapes and forms. Um So, hume,
for example, arguing, um that um um reason is
and ought to be um the servant of the
passions. Um And so, um there's another sort of
historical view of emotions is really integral to making
good decisions. Um But I think your starting point
is really well taken that at the early part
of the 20th century, there was a really negative
view that was, uh, in part, sort of like
Freudian psychoanalytic, right. That saw emotions as the source
of, um, all, many, the most horrible things about
humans aggression, um, destructive impulses, the, the, the aid
basically being the seat of emotions. Um, AND I
think actually you're absolutely right that, that sort of
fed into, hesitant to, to study these bad things
and when people study them, they studied them as
something to be controlled and how we sort of
can get rid of them. Yeah. Um, I think
that's a really interesting observation. Um, CAN I make
one more point about this? Yes,
of course.
And one of the most, I think it's like,
just the fascinating observation, sort of like how people
think at the most fundamental level about emotions, like,
are emotions good or are they bad? Um, AND,
um, uh, we've actually started to study how, um,
lay people think about, uh, emotions, um, sort of
like, akin to these philosophical debates. Most lay people
have intuitions about emotions that are sort of like
either of the sort of platonic flavor where they
think no emotions are to be feared and controlled
and these are bad things that I should get
rid of. But then some people, lay people, not
philosophers, um have, um, sort of the more Aristotelian
hume, like intuitions about emotions where they think emotions
are to be embraced, they're important um, in our
lives. Um, AND, um, give our lives meaning and
richness. Um, AND, um, that extends to unpleasant emotions.
Um, YEAH. So there's a really interesting parallel to
that philosophical, um, debate and how lay people think
about emotions.
So, when it comes to classifying emotions in terms
of them being good or bad, we're talking about
violence here. Right. That's usually the term that psychologists
use or not.
Yeah. So that's very interesting. Um, AND I would
say no. Um, SO, um, and I should check
my own. I think there's a habit of doing
that and I myself have that habit and I
should check myself because, um, um, we can up
so one of the most basic ways in which
we differentiate uh among different emotions is by valence.
Um And um there's emotions that feel good, pleasant,
like joy, um, hope, love, um, excitement, um, peace,
calm. Um And there's emotions that, um, feel unpleasant,
um, anger, sadness, despair, fear and so forth. Um
And sometimes we jump to the conclusion that pleasant
emotions are those that are good and those that
we should strive for and we assume that all
people want to feel pleasant, emotions and conversely unpleasant
emotions are those that are bad that people want
to avoid, uh and that are harmful, but it
turns out that, um, that mapping doesn't, um mm
uh isn't completely accurate um, with regard to what
emotions people want to feel and also what emotions
people um should want to feel. Um, SO, um,
Maya Tamir who's a, um, psychologist, um, at the
Hebrew University, um, has studied, um, the cases, um,
really in depth, um, where, um, the exact opposite
is true and sometimes those are the most interesting,
um, cases where people, um, pursue what's called contra
hedonic. They, uh, my cat is especially active. He
loves the topic. Um, SO, um, uh, basically, um,
sometimes, um, more than sometimes people pursue unpleasant emotions
and avoid pleasant emotions and that can be quite
adaptive in people's lives.
Ok. But, but when it comes to pursuing unpleasant
emotions, do we know within those particular cases or
contexts, people still experience them as unpleasant or not?
Hm. Ha. That's really, so you mean when people
pursue unpleasant emotions, um, are they still truly unpleasant?
Um, OR does it kind of then feel good?
Um, LIKE, let's say, or
perhaps if we would ask people in those particular
contexts, whether they fought, they had experienced a positive
or negative or a good or bad emotion, they
wouldn't say it was bad even though it wasn't
pleasant. I, I mean, it's a bit confusing perhaps.
But yeah, that's what I'm asking.
It's a great question and um, many psychologists ask
that too. And so I think there's sort of
two parts to this, um, one part is that
we need to distinguish um the, the phenomenology of
the emotion, what it feels like from its consequences
um for my functioning for my health and so
forth. So, um and so when I say pleasant,
unpleasant, I'm just referring to what it feels like.
Um And so, uh, Maya Tamir and others research
has established that unpleasant emotions can have um benefits.
Um And so we might call them good for
something else. So, for example, in research, um, with
Brett Ford, they've shown that um when people, um
are about to sort of head into a contentious
uh negotiation, um they um tend to um favor
um feeling anger over other emotions, anger being generally
an emotion that's experienced as unpleasant. Um And they
do so because anger has these functional benefits in
their lives, it makes them slightly more energetic um
effective negotiators. And so that's sometimes what we mean
by good. Um WHEN we um talk about um
uh emotions. Um SO that said, um so that's
sort of like a simpler way of answering your
question, right? That we have to distinguish the various
purposes that emotions serve um to talk about pleasant,
unpleasant, good, bad and emotions serve uh hedonic purposes
um in people's lives, generally, people want to feel
pleasant, want not to feel unpleasant, but emotions also
serve a bunch of other purposes. Um THAT um
we could call instrumental purposes. Um EMOTIONS can also
make us fit in or not fit in with
our culture and other people that's independent of the
valence dimension. Emotions can also help us achieve um
performance goal like the negotiation context that I just
mentioned and that's also independent of, um, the hedonic
or feeling or valence dimension. Um Now they're sort
of like, and there we got maybe a tiny,
little bit more into the weeds. Once you say
that emotions independent of their valence can serve these
other purposes. It's entirely possible that then there's a
feedback loop such that emotions truly don't just simply
feel pleasant or unpleasant because in realizing my anger
serves a purpose in my life, I might come
to experience it as um less aversive, less unpleasant.
I sort of relish uh relish my anger almost.
And then we get into sort of states that
are mixed feeling states. Um And we encounter those
like really interesting emotional states. Um WHEN we think
about um righteous uh moral outrage, right? Where probably
that, that has an unpleasant element to it, but
also an element of um pleasant, well, feeling righteous.
Um So, um that, that's sort of like, uh
one answer to your really interesting question, that sort
of this very basic valence dimension isn't quite so
basic when we take a closer look and um
wanting or feeling pleasant is not quite such a
simple um pursuit. And in fact, it's not what
most humans do um exclusively most of the time.
Yeah, actually, when you mentioned, uh uh when, how
people sometimes went to feel angry in the context
of negotiation? I mean, I uh it came into
my mind, another context where I've heard many people
saying that they want to feel angry. There is,
for example, in a competition context, like for example,
in sports or particularly combat sports, I've heard many
people saying that when, for example, in M MA
wrestling and so on, when they are going out
into the rink, they really want to feel angry,
they don't want to feel good, they want to
feel angry and tense and all of that because
that's what drives them to really uh fight, I
guess.
I think that's a great example that I've heard
a lot as well. Um And um similarly, some
people want to, at some level, I use the
term broadly, worry, feel some anxiety, it serves a
purpose in their lives. Some people want to. And
again, I use the term broadly feel sadness. Um
And so um absolutely
and so to get into another topic, but also
a related when, what is the emotion regulation?
Um Another actually really complicated question that sort of
there's a lot of division in the field about.
Um I like again a pretty simple definition um
of emotion regulation as altering your emotions um in
accordance um with a goal that can be implicit
or explicit.
So, I mean, do you think that in the
sort of cases and contexts we were just mentioning
uh that would count as an example. Do you
think that people do emotion regulation in those cases
or not,
um in the cases where they um sort
of where they are basically competing, negotiating stuff like
that.
Um Yes, I think so. Um So, um uh
and it sort of like we're heading into right
away, sort of like one of the areas that
has made it difficult to um draw the line
between what is emotion reactivity versus what is regulation
of emotion. Um Because say you mixed martial arts
wrestler uh might sort of pump themselves at feel,
sort of induce some level of anger. But probably
if you ask them, they don't necessarily say, oh,
I'm gonna regulate my emotions so that I feel
a little bit more anger so that I can
whoop my adversaries as a little bit better. Um
um But I still think so it heads into
a really interesting sort of gray zone um where
emotion regulation and that's why I included the implicit
goal idea where emotion regulation is um automatic or
to some degree unconscious. Um So people are not
necessarily aware that there's a goal activated um to
regulate emotions. Um um And then you could ask,
well, how do we know that someone is regulating
or simply um um emotional in a particular way
um without um any goal to alter their um
their emotions. Um And I think one answer is,
um I think we don't know, um we can't,
we don't yet have really convincing measures um of
these implicit unconscious ways of regulating altering our emotions
according with implicit goals. Um But we have a
little bit of understanding that um um and at
least in principle, um the distinction again is a
useful one between emotional reactivity that um people differ
on um without um um the activation of a
particular goal to alter the emotional response.
But if it's done implicitly, if it's sort of
subconscious, um how do you know uh that people
are doing it? I mean, it must be hard.
Right?
Yes. So it's incredibly difficult to, and that's why
I said, I don't think we have very guns
good evidence base for knowing um that people have
actually engaged in unconscious or implicit emotion regulation. Um
What we do know is that one unconscious processes
um including goal based processes play a really important
role um in psychology in general. But we also
know is that um some of the most interesting
individual differences and group differences in emotion regulation seem
to at least um partly play out on a
implicit um not always consciously accessible level. Um So
just for example, there's socialization processes um that um
sort of inculcate or teach Children um that they
can or can't regulate their emotions. Um Sometimes we,
we call that implicit models um of emotion.
Could you give us an example of that, please?
Yeah. So um uh emotions um are can be
seen um as um either um something that's um
controllable, that's not super dangerous um that I can
do something about. Um And um we would um
ask about um this kind of, you could call
it an implicit model or a mindset. Um BY
asking people um very straightforward, are emotions controllable in
general. Um Can humans do something about the emotions
that they have? Um And um uh that sometimes
also a controllability or malleability mindset with the term,
um The um the other end of the spectrum
is a, what's sometimes called a fixed uh mindset
or entity mindset. Uh And that's um basically the
idea that uh emotions are very difficult uh to
control that they are overwhelming forces. Um So, the
reason why I brought that up as an example
of implicit emotion regulation or process that feeds into
implicit emotion regulation is that I think people in
general are not always aware of the beliefs that
they have about emotions in that way. Um So,
um and yet those beliefs have very important consequences
for whether and how we regulate our emotions.
So, do these beliefs this kind that, of course,
as you mentioned, there can stem from the way
we are socialized. Do they play a role in
the degree to which we are able to regulate
our emotions?
Yes. So, um and that's why um they came
up as one really important aspect of implicit or
unconscious processes in emotion regulation. Um And um there's
um two sort of really fundamental beliefs about emotions
that play a role here. One is, um, are
emotions good or bad. And we already talked about
that a little bit earlier. Right. And it sort
of translates to the belief. Should people control their
emotions or should they not? Should they control that
sort of like the platonic, um, view if you
will, um, should they not, should they be guided
by their emotions? That's more the, the hum, um,
view. That's one really basic distinction. The other really
basic belief is, can people control their emotions or
can they not um with the first being, sort
of the view that emotions are um not so
dangerous that they don't necessarily overwhelm us. Um And
the second view being that emotions are these dangerous,
overwhelming forces that I can't necessarily control or that
people can't necessarily control. So the second belief is
the one that seems to have really important implications
for people's ability to regulate their emotions. Um And
it makes perfect sense because if you think about
it for a moment, if you don't believe that
emotions are controllable, you're not even going to try
to regulate them. So, um and that has been
borne out in the research, um such that in
general, people with um more controllability beliefs, people who
believe that emotions can be controlled um tend to
engage in um more um uh adaptive, more effective
emotion regulation.
And so, apart from this sort of um emotion
regulation related beliefs, what are some of the other
factors that explain both individual and group differences in
emotion regulation.
Um So, beliefs are a really important um factor
here. Um There's a bunch of other factors that
I think play a role um that have to
do with how people um judge and think about
their emotions in general. So, and a lot of
it has to do with um socialization processes. Um
So, for example, um when um we think about
um should emotions um be controlled, um culture seems
to play um an important role in sort of
setting up that particular um belief about emotions and
downstream um consequences for emotion regulation. So two cultures
that have been kind of often contrasted with one
another are um East Asian um more interdependent cultures
and um uh European um or European American, more
independent cultures. Um AND generally, um um as a
function of these differences in self construal and beliefs
about the, the nature of the self. And what
is um the role that individuals should play in
social context? Um People differ with regard to um
how they think um or the extent to which
they think emotions should be regulated and then emotion
regulation. So there's a pretty stable um pattern such
that um East Asian interdependent cultures tend to endorse
emotion suppression. Um MORE so than Western independent cultures
and do, do the benefits that we get from
emotion regulation depend on the context. I mean, are
there perhaps contexts where uh trying to regulate your
emotions more might actually not be beneficial or not.
Yeah. Yeah. So it's a super fascinating question and
I think we wanna back up for a moment
and think a little bit more about what emotional
regulation is and make a couple of distinctions that
I think are really important when we answer that
question. Um So um emotion regulation is not sort
of like one monolith, but people can go about
regulating their emotions in several different ways. Um And
um one of the sort of like core models
that the field uses um to um distinguish um
various types of emotion regulation is based on um
James Gross's um process model of emotion regulation. And
the, the, the model is actually a pretty simple
and really useful one. And basically, idea is when
people have an emotion, you sort of go through
a process, you encounter a situation, you play, you
pay attention to the situation, you appraise the situation
in a particular way and then you respond um
with your experience physiology and behavior to that situation.
So that's the process of emotion now to regulate
that emotion, you can intervene or alter each of
those four steps. So, um let's say, um somebody
is um uh anxious about giving a public speech
or something. So, so they can change that emotion
in by intervening at four different points. Um First,
they can change the situation. They can say I'm
gonna cancel this speech and voila no emotion. Um
Second, they can say I'm gonna change what I
pay attention to, um, big, like I could choose
to pay attention to the friendly, um, person who's
sitting in the front rather than the scowling, uh,
skeptical people who are sitting at other places in
the audience. Um, SO that's sort of altering my
attention and again, it'll change my emotion. Third, I
can change my appraisal of the situation. So, for
example, um I could um tell myself that this
is sort of one event if I think about
sort of like the history or the arc of
my life or the whole universe, this is just
like the teensiest blip and that might do away
with a lot of anxiety. And then, so that's
appraisal change sometimes called reappraisal. And then fourth, um
we can change the emotional responses. Um And so,
um um focusing for a moment on um the
response of anxious behavior, I could just try to
tamp down on that behavior and keep sort of
like a non anxious, neutral phase rather than showing
um that I'm sort of terrified on the inside.
Um So that's sort of like four groups of
emotional regulation that people often distinguish. So now, and
I needed to make that distinction because before answering
your question about whether emotion regulation is kind of
moderated or whether emotional regulations effects on health and
well being are moderated by the context because to
answer that question, we first to need, we first
need to understand the effects of emotion regulation on
well being in general. Um And then we can
understand whether there are boundary conditions or context um
moderation. So backing up, so I backed up two
steps. Now I'm backing up what set. Um And
so that like we'll give you like the super
simplified answer, which is that in general, when people
kind of studied emotion regulation, they often they, or
there's a lot of research that has focused on
reappraisal, changing our re appraisals or const controls of
emotional situations and expressive suppression, just tamping down on
the emotions that I show in my behavior. And
the first lines of research very generally indicated that
people who use reappraisal, especially people who use reappraisal
very effectively tend to do better. They have greater
well being, they have um better social relationships. Um
There's even the hints that they have better um
um physical health um in, in some like certain
domains, in contrast, people who tend to use expressive
suppression, they feel something on the inside, but they
don't show it on the outside, um tend to
be less psychologically healthy um and have less good
social relationships. Um So, two really important domains of
well being and functioning. Um And then again, sort
of hints that even physical health um might be
negatively impacted. Um So that was sort of like
the first line of findings in emotion regulation research.
Um Now we come to finally, I come to
your question that is, well, are there context effects?
Um Are those sort of simple relationships always necessarily
true? Um Is it the case that reappraisal is
good for everybody to use? And in all contexts,
is it the case that suppression is bad for
everybody to use? And in all contexts and as
you can imagine, like for most things in life,
um no, they're not all good or all bad.
Um And um so there's in fact really interesting
um boundary conditions and moderators. Um And so um
one interesting or I wanna give you two examples
for um moderators, one for reappraisal and one for
suppression um just to keep things symmetrical. Um So
reappraisal has been shown um like I said to
be um beneficial in lots of different contexts for
lots of different people. Um And actually reappraisal is
one of the most. Um I think culturally and
across people stable effects um that I've seen. So
I love cultural differences and um sort of have
looked or always interested in sort of looking at
how things might play out differently in different cultures.
And I want to preface sort of what I
say about boundary conditions. Um BY saying that um
I've been actually really um struck by how stable
these benefits of reappraisal appear to be. Um So
recent research in my lab, for example, looked at
um appraisal in Mexican American adolescents. Um AND it
was good um across time for anhedonia symptoms. Um
uh WITH uh Qing Zao, we've looked at um
Chinese American immigrants and again, adolescents found that the
reappraisal was good for them and that sort of
dovetails with a lot of other research. Um But
one particular context where um we and others have
found that reappraisal seems to hit some limits is
um when we look in particular um types of
um um uh situational adversity and in particular, um
more, um when people face more um controllable um
stress. Um So, um the idea is that sometimes
um it can be really good to regulate your
own emotions, make yourself feel better, feel less negative
and more positive emotions. Um And those seem, and
that's what reappraisal is really effective at. But sometimes,
and this goes back to something that we talked
about earlier. It might not be the best idea
to tinker with your own emotions. Um But rather
sometimes it might be a better idea to actually
alter the situation that you're in. Um And that's
the case when you're facing a controllable, stressor or
controllable adversity, let's say you're in a fight with
um with your best friend. Should you then tell
yourself, oh, it's just a blip in time. It's
not as bad as it looks, I'm gonna feel
better. Um Or should you feel some of that
sadness or anger or worry and use those unpleasant
emotions in turn to fuel a motivation, hash it
out with your friend, apologize to your friend and
so forth. And so the argument is that, um
when you face controllable adversity, things that you can
and maybe should do something about it might be
better to um, not self regulate, um using reappraisal.
And so, um, few different studies um have indicated,
um that, um, that's indeed the case. So, um,
um found that people who were in um more
controllable, who had experienced more controllable life stress in
the past 18 months, uh previous to assessment, the
better they were at emotional regulation, the more depressed,
um They actually felt um people who are in
uncontrollable life stress, um the better they were at
emotion regulation via reappraisal, the less depression they felt.
So you see almost like this teeter totter of
self regulation versus situation regulation. Um Another study um
that um Brett Ford and Oliver John and Phoebe
Lamb um headed um found that um Clinton voters
um after the 2016 presidential election where Donald Trump
won and Hillary Clinton lost um when they um
um uh used reappraisal as assessed with surveys or
by experimental manipulation um when they like used reappraisal
and effectively reduce their negative emotions, they were actually
less likely to then go out and um protest
or try to do something about the situation that
was very stressful for them as Clinton voters. And
that again, hints at that um teeter Totter of
self regulation that might sometimes come at the cost
of situation regulation and doing something about bad situations.
Mhm. So that was a long answer to your
question about reappraisal and it can sometimes be bad.
Um, WE can stop there or I can tell
you about when suppression might be not so bad.
Oh, ok. But just before we get into that,
I mean, one example was coming to my mind.
Well, while you were explaining all of that, hopefully
it's a good example. I'm not sure. But uh
I mean, perhaps a case, uh perhaps there's a
particular kind of case where um I mean, doing
emotion regulation would not be so good. So for
example, if you are um a man was brought
up in a very, with very strict masculine norms.
And for example, you, you associate uh stoicism with
being very masculine. And for example, you experience a
loss, a family member of yours die and then
you are at the funeral and you just try
to suppress or regulate some of your emotion and
you avoid crying because I, I mean, crying is
not manly or something like that. I mean, perhaps
that would be uh something that would have uh
potentially negative psychological consequences. I mean, I I'm not
sure if the example is the best one, but
what do you think about it?
Yeah, I think it's a great example. Um And
first of all, you hit on a really important
gender difference um in expressive suppression where men um
across various cultures and um groups that have been
studied tend to um say they use expressive suppression
more than women. Um And so that's a gender
stereotype that we have and that seems to be
borne out in socialization in, in how and degrees
to which men versus women use expressive suppression. Um
And it's a great example because in general, expressive
suppression has been associated with bad outcomes. Um LIKE
I said earlier, like in terms of psychological health,
um and um uh and social functioning. Um AND
um and that seems to um be um true
across the genders um and across a number of
different groups that said, um your example actually is
a great one in hinting at potentially a boundary
condition to the harms of expressive suppression. And that's,
that stems from the idea that there's sort of
two reasons why expressive suppression might be bad. One
is that sort of like it, it's, and you
could think of it as inherent to the suppression.
I have an emotional impulse and in sort of
like almost like a Freudian way I tamped down
on it. And that sort of like makes the
impulse um grow stronger and more harmful um hydraulically
almost. Um And there's some um physiological measures um
that are consistent with that, but also um suppression
might be um bad for a second reason that's
not sort of inherent to the process but has
to do with how people think about the process.
And um some people think that suppression is actually
the culturally appropriate and correct thing to do. Um
So in sort of coming back to the distinction
of independent and interdependent cultures in independent cultures, we
think of um, emotions sort of as something that
we ought to express. It's part of being authentic,
part of the norm. If you're sad and you
are grieving, you can cry even if you're a
man. But um in other cultures, emotions are not
seen as so acceptable. I mentioned that earlier so
that if the interdependent view of emotions as something
that can upset social harmony and individual emotions um
ought to sometimes at least be adjusted to the
context. And so, if we think of emotions in
that way, expressive suppression might be more valued in
a cultural context, specifically in interdependent cultures. And so,
um there's um some indication that accordingly, we then
see that expressive suppression in those cultural contexts is
not quite as harmful and sometimes um even beneficial.
Um So, um going um back to the study
I mentioned earlier that was um led by Gerald
Young um um look and he looked at um
expressive suppression in Mexican American adolescents uh and its
relationship with um depressive symptoms. And he argued that
um actually in um the Mexican American cultural context,
um positive emotionality um highly valued. It's sort of
like the ethos of simpatia if you will. Um
But negative emotions are very much so not valued.
Um And um consistent with the idea that the
effects of expressive suppression depend on the cultural view
of expressive suppression. He found that suppression of positive
emotions was linked with greater depressive symptoms, but suppression
of negative emotions was actually linked with lower depressive
symptoms. Um In this sample, um indicating that there
are really important um moderators, not the case that
it's always bad or always good. So in the
broadest sense, we come back to the takeaway that
no single emotion regulation strategy is always good or
always bad, but it depends on the context.
So I think that perhaps we could say here
that uh at least one underlying or current theme
here uh has to do with the culture and
cultural context. We've talked here for example, about differences
between independent and interdependent cultures. So for example, the
differences between uh Western cultures and East Asian cultures.
So I I mean, isn't it the case that
when it comes to, for example, um understanding mental
health that perhaps even when it comes to the
mental health professionals themselves that perhaps they have to
take into account the cultural context where the patients
come from because it seems at least very obvious
to me that this would have clinical implications or
not.
Yes. Um Absolutely. And I think that's one of
the really important implications here that um and we
want, I think um construe culture broadly. Um YOU
know, we focus a little bit on interdependence, independence,
East West. Uh But of course, ethnicity is a
really important driver of values, beliefs, particular ecologies that
people live in. Um TYPES of adversity that they
face. Um Gender is another way of thinking about
culture. Um And so culture broadly, construed. Absolutely is
really important for um the implications and thinking about
this for mental health and interventions um and helping
people use emotional regulation to serve them in their
lives. Absolutely.
And, and that do you think that were among
those different uh aspects or factors that you mentioned
there? Like ethnicity, gender. Uh Would you also list
among them socio-economic status or not? Yes.
Yeah, I think so. Um In, in, in that
socio-economic status, of course, is deeply intertwined with um
ethnicity, race, gender um and so forth. Um And
also in that it constitutes a ecology. If you
will, what kinds of values and beliefs will people
encounter um in the environments? Um What kinds of
adversity, what levels of adversity will they encounter and
so forth? Um So we talked about um controllability
of adversity as one of the um factors that
um moderates um the effects of reappraisal, right? Um
How effective emotion regulation via reappraisal tends to not
be as beneficial when people can and should do
something about situations that they're in. Um And so
one extension of this is to say, well, let's
look at S CS as um a factor that's
related to um controllability, right? The more resources people
have the higher in SES, they have the more
control over their environment they tend to have. Um
And um by extension, then reappraisal should be less
um beneficial for people higher versus lower in SES.
Um And we tested that idea in um three
different samples um together with um Alison Troy, um
and Terry mccrae and found um evidence that that's
the case. So, um, people lower in S CS,
um tended to benefit more from uh reappraisal and
that might be due to the fact that uh
lower ses covaries with, um having less control over
the context. And therefore, um, and I say that
a little bit um with, with some pain, um
because I think there might be a cost to
the person in some other ways, but at least
when we look at mental health, there's a benefit
to self regulating.
Mhm. And so, uh are there ways of improving
our emotion regulation? I mean, anything that we can
do individually to improve how we regulate our emotions
or the extent to which we are able to
do it?
Um Yes, first there's, you know, good old therapy.
Um And so, um, you know, cognitive behavioral therapy,
um is one of the ways, um that, um,
very much so helps people um recognize, um when
and why they use maybe dysfunctional types of emotional
regulation that teaches them how to and what kinds
of regulation they might use that might benefit them
in their lives. Uh And also teach us techniques
um in essence, restructuring, automatic thoughts um uh is
a way of um teaching people to use reappraisal.
So that's one really important piece. Um I wanna
also um talk about um recent, more recent extensions
of um C BT that incorporate um mindfulness and
acceptance um into the therapy. And um those um
I think um are sort of like a spin
on C BT that sort of are very relevant
to emotional regulation. Um But they make a really
interesting extension um by, at their core, relying on
emotional acceptance. Um
BY the way, when you mentioned acceptance, there, are
you tying it to acceptance and commitment therapy or
not or there? Oh, ok.
OK. Yes. So, um um so it's acceptance and
commitment therapy is sort of like one of those
recent. Um I mean, there's divergent opinions I think
on whether they are cognitive or like a completely
new thing. Uh But um regard um there's sort
of um mindfulness based cognitive therapies, but also acceptance
and commitment therapy that all sort of incorporate themes
of mindfulness and emotional acceptance into the therapy. And
um why am I talking about those when answering
your question about how people can improve emotion regulation?
Um Because at first glance, you might think, well,
this is emotional acceptance, accepting your emotions as they
are, that sounds like the exact opposite of emotion
regulation, right? And so, um to me, these are
incredibly interesting extensions and they bring into the fold
of emotion regulation, emotional acceptance. And so in the
last, I don't know, like uh 1015 years, um
the emotion regulation field I think has started to
grapple with what is emotional acceptance? Um How does
that play into emotion regulation? Does it undermine the
whole idea that emotion regulation or reappraisal is such
a great thing? Because we do know that emotional
acceptance has benefits. And so that sort of like
could be seen as an issue, right? Emotion regulation.
Researchers over here talking about how you should regulate
your emotions and then people over there who say,
oh just accept your emotions and sort of magically
that will improve your um well being. Um So,
to me, it's really interesting to think about why
um emotional acceptance um could be beneficial and how
it relates to emotion regulation. Um Maybe we can
talk a little bit more about acceptance at the
moment. Um I wanna sort of just briefly answer
your question about how people can improve their emotion
regulation in one more um way because sort of
not everybody has the capacity to um go to
therapy, right? It's really expensive, you have to have
access to a therapist. And so um there's um
um I think recent um developments in uh mobile
assistant assisted um um interventions. Um NO, even apps
um that um um deliver um often it's sort
of coach um uh coached in sort of mindfulness
interventions um that deliver interventions at a, in a
much more accessible manner that um can help people
regulate their emotions um better. Um There was a
recent study um by David Yeager and colleagues um
that delivered a 30 minute um what they called
synergistic mindset intervention. Um um That was based on
the idea that basically, if you change people's beliefs
about emotions, that's sort of a really um uh
effective way to help them regulate their emotions better.
Um And so they um basically taught people two
things, first, emotions and your own mind is controllable.
So it goes back to that controllability belief and
second uh emotions aren't these like including stress, aren't
these super dangerous, terrible things. Um And so, um
they call that a synergistic mindset because you needed
to teach both of those. And they found, um
that's a 30 minute intervention and they found a
bunch of uh benefits associated with that that was
uh mediated by emotional regulation. So, um that's a
couple of thoughts on how people can be helped
and taught to regulate their emotions in better ways.
Um Somehow we got into acceptance, which I think
is really important. Uh Maybe we can talk about
it, but I don't know whether you want to
talk about acceptance.
Uh Yeah. No, actually I was going to just
comment briefly on it. If I say something wrong
here, please correct me. But actually, I mean, when
it comes to mindfulness specifically, and that idea coming
from, for example, Zen Buddhism that, that people apply
to mindfulness where um they teach you that it
doesn't really matter much what goes on in your
mind. The sort of the sort of thoughts that
your mind produces the sort of feelings because that's
just something that happens. You have really no control
over but what you, how you react with and
what you do with it, it's something that you
can control, not the thoughts but you, what you
do about them actually, for me, uh what I
mean, when you try, when you tie it to
accepting what goes around in your mind is, is
a sort of, I, I always tied it to
a sort of e emotion regulation or control because
it's actually about you uh being able over time
to, to react, how you want to your own
feelings, your own thoughts and so on. So, so
I, I mean, at least for me personally, it
does, there doesn't seem to be, even though the
word there is, is acceptance, there doesn't seem to
be uh much contradiction there. But I mean, maybe
I'm wrong. I don't know.
So, yeah, I think that's exactly one way in
which um emotion regulation researchers have reconciled this sort
of like um apparent um or seeming tension that
basically they said, well, so it's kind of like
a type of reappraisal of your own emotional response.
Maybe that's what you mean. Right. Um, BECAUSE sort
of acceptance sort of is at the level of
the initial emotional response I think, and you sort
of, rather than thinking about that response as something
that's, um, uh, important right to, to, to regulate
and tinker with you simply let it be, you
don't judge it, you maybe mindfully observe it with
curiosity, but you don't try to sort of tinker
with that initial emotional response. Um OR the, the
feeling state, you very much so and acceptance seems
to empower people to do that, you very much
so decide how you wanna respond to it, sort
of the downstream um actions, right? I feel angry.
Am I gonna hit somebody? No. Um And so
some people have argued that like it's a type
of reappraisal of your own emotions if you will,
I'm not sure that that's actually completely right because
um it, it really emotional acceptance really is encountering
your emotions without judgment without um trying to alter
them. I truly let them be it, it like
you said, it's, I don't give them a lot
of importance, but I also don't try to alter
them. So I do think emotional acceptance is different
from reappraisal um in that way. Um I do
think to me it's more about sort of once
you have an experience to, to let it be.
Um, I absolutely agree and there seems to be
like a positive relationship between acceptance and um precisely
not um having the, the space not to act
on your emotions. Um But to me, acceptance seems
more about like, um it's the like that the,
the inverse of experiential avoidance you allow the experience.
Um But also you're not afraid of it, um
because you don't see it as defining um yourself
as being identical with yourself. Um So to me,
acceptance and reappraisal actually play a really um interesting
um synergistic role and sort of live seem to
live alongside one another um rather than being one
and the same process.
Yeah. No, I, I mean, uh I was just
pointing to the fact that perhaps uh what seems
initially to be a sort of contradiction there between
emotion regulation and acceptance, perhaps it's not such a
big contradict, a contradiction. I mean, that more or
less what I was saying, not necessarily waiting, acceptance
to reappraisal. So,
yes. Ab OK. Yes, I think we have the
exact same response then. Yeah. Yeah, but we don't
know yet a lot about, about um acceptance, like
it's been like a little ignored by emotion regulation
researchers uh for, for, for a while. And so
I think it's a very, there's starting to be
more and more research from the emotion regulation field
um on it. Um And I think that's a
really um interesting um development um because you know,
we've talked a lot about reappraisal, truth be told,
reappraisal is a pretty complicated um abstract process. I
don't know whether that's a reaction you have. You
know, you're like talking about thinking about your emotional
situation in a way that sort of changes it.
Um That's a little bit abstract and complicated. And
um what I like about acceptance is that um
at least in theory it's uh more straightforward. Um
And yeah,
yeah. II, I mean, this is all very complicated.
Don't get me wrong when I talk about mindfulness
to this day. I'm not sure that I 100%
understand. What's that thing about just letting your thoughts
popping, pop into your head and not doing anything
about it. I mean, it's a weird as well.
It's true too actually. And that's why I quickly
added, like in theory, it's more straightforward because you're,
you're right. I mean, you know, that's why you
have like meditation courses that are many, many weeks
and hours and, and days um long. Um And
uh you know, like it sounds so straightforward, just
let your emotions naturally unfold, think of them like
clouds in the sky and so forth. But when
we do experimental studies, um somehow it's actually not
easy at all to actually do this for our
participants. Um And no matter what metaphors we use,
uh it's, it's tricky. Um And I've wondered a
lot about why that is. Um And um I
mean, one idea of course is that we're so
used to thinking about our emotions. This goes back
all the way to something that you said much
earlier. We're very much so used to think about
our emotions as dangerous, um, potentially overwhelming negative things
that, uh, we quickly should do something about lest
they overwhelm us. Um And so maybe acceptance is
such a difficult thing because it goes against, um,
those beliefs.
So to get into the last topic of our
conversation today, let's talk a little bit about happiness
here because uh I mean, this is uh you're
not the first person that I talk with about
this, but uh it seems that there are some
paradoxical effects when it comes to valuing and seeking
happiness,
right? Yes. Um Happiness, one of my favorite um
topics and of course, it's deeply intertwined with everything
that we talked about happiness, of course, has, you
know, like is an emotional state, at least to
some degree, right? Um uh Happiness has been studied
as um subjective well being made of in large
part, like there's an evaluative, more cognitive piece to
it, satisfaction with life, but then abundance of positive
feelings and not so much negative feelings, hedonic balance
sometimes it's called um so um inherently related to
everything that we've been talking about. Um And um
you mentioned the paradoxical effects of um valuing happiness.
And um I first became sort of interested in,
in this um sort of as a, um, immigrant
to the US, um, coming from Germany. I noticed
that, um, uh, in the US happiness, of course,
is colloquially and sort of in general talked about
much more. Right. We, we've all heard sort of
like the stereotype of people asking, uh, you know,
how's life in the US? And people will be,
it's great. And sort of like when you first
move from Northwestern Europe, it's sort of like, oh
what? Really? Um So there's a cultural difference that
kind of motivated um me to look at um
how that um value might play out in um
helping or hindering um people from obtaining happiness. Um
And so we've um actually just finished um a
big paper um together with uh Felicia Zit and
um Brett Ford and Oliver John that looked at
um this value across um um five different um
larger samples. Um So um the idea is that
in general people value happiness, there's some cultural differences,
but that's a overwhelming value around the world. Um
And it like makes perfect sense, right? Because happiness
feels good as we talked about earlier and it
also helps people be have better lives, like helps
people be more successful, contributes to greater mental health,
greater social well being and so forth. Um And
um I also want to say that there's, of
course, lots of um interventions, social, psychological and others
um that we already talked about that basically are
based on the notion that um helping people become
happier is a good thing and it works. So,
Sonia Lerski, of course, has amazing research on that
Barbara Fredrickson and others. Um At the same time,
um we had a sneaking, um, uh suspicion that
you could overdo it. Um And or do it
in the wrong way. Um The idea being that
if you are sort of singularly focused on being
happy, becoming happier, there's a paradox in there where
if we're focused on say doing better in math,
you work hard, you set up an expectation, I'm
gonna do better and you might not do as
well as your expectation, you're disappointed and you work
harder and become better. So no paradox there when
we think about happiness, happiness has an emotional component,
right? So as you highly value happiness and you
encounter times when you fall short of this value,
this expectation, you feel disappointed, that's an emotional state
that's in direct conflict with the very goal that
you have, which is happiness. And so that's at
the core of the paradox. Um And so um
we recently examined this um um value of happiness
in greater detail. Um We used to think of
it as a one dimensional construct that's aligned along
sort of strength of the value of happiness. Um
But we noticed something um and others noticed um
that, that might be too simplistic an idea where
the strength of the value itself might not be
enough to um engage these paradoxical effects. Um The
reason for that being that you might have a
really strong value of happiness and you might fall
short of your expectation, but you might handle that
shortfall without, without stumbling on it, you might not
react with greater disappointment, but just kind of like
roll with it. Um And in cases like that,
and we call this aspiring to happiness. It's people
who sort of endorse happiness is extremely important to
me just that you it could be pretty innocuous.
But then there's the second case and we call
this being concerned about happiness and this is the
case and we go back to beliefs and our
own reactions to our own emotions. Here, you have
people who worry who are concerned when about their
own level of happiness. Um And they believe that
it means something negative about their lives uh about
how they're doing in the world. And they need
to negatively elaborate on their own level of happiness
um by being disappointed by judging their own experiences.
And so it turns out um when we look
across five different um samples um about 1500 people,
they reliably differ in terms of aspiring versus concern
about happiness. People who are concerned about their own
happiness, who react um with elaborate negative elaboration to
their own happiness levels. They go on to um
show the paradoxical effects, the more they value happiness
in this concerned way, the less happy, the more
depressed they go on to be. And then in
the last part of the research, we wanted to
look at this idea that this is because they
respond with greater negative meta emotion exactly when they
ought to be happy, when they experience positive things
in their daily lives. Um And we found that
was the case. Um So when, um um uh
and we match sort of like the intensity of
the positive events, like, let's say a birthday party,
people who are concerned about their own happiness, um
undermine those experiences uh by injecting negativity, disappointment, and
judgment into those experiences. And over time it feeds
into exactly the thing that they want to avoid,
which is less happiness um and greater levels of
depressive symptoms. Um So, uh the, the, the conclusion
is that absolutely, there are these paradoxes in focusing
in the wrong way on our own happiness um
that we should try to avoid um if we
um if we want to avoid the negative downstream
consequences um of those and maybe it goes back
to something that we talked about earlier, which is
emotional acceptance. So, in a way, um you know,
be happy about what you have versus having trying
to have um what you think you're gonna be
happy about might be the way to go.
But then these beliefs that people have about happiness,
their expectations and so on are also shaped by
culture.
Right? Yes. Yeah. So um going back to the
observation that um at least anecdotally, some cultures seem
to value happiness in a different way or think
of happiness in a different way. Um IS, is
borne out by some research. It's really, it's really
complicated as, you know, comparing um mean level reports
across cultures is tricky because people in different cultures
use scales in different ways and make judgments in
different ways. Um There's something called a contrast group
effect. So it's really hard to do that. Um
One thing that we have tried to do um
to get around that is to examine the links
between values, how people think about happiness and outcomes
um across different cultures. Um So, in um research
that was um done um led by Brett Ford,
um um we compared um us um samples to
Russian, German and East Asian samples um and found
that um the cultures that um valued happiness more
in a socially engaged way did not show the
paradoxical inverse relationship that I talked about earlier. So
it's a little bit of a complicated design. I'll,
I'll simplify in the US. We saw that valuing
happiness was less linked with socially engaged um meanings
of happiness. Um LIKE spending time with other people,
helping other people. Um In um Germany, that link
um was um absent in Russia, the link started
to flip. And then in East Asia, there's sort
of like a gradient of interdependence. If you will,
the link uh flipped more strongly. So in East
Asia, valuing happiness was more strongly associated with socially
engaged uh understandings of happiness. And to the extent
that that was the case, valuing happiness was associated
with greater benefits. So we see a flip of
the relationship such that in East Asia, Japan and
Taiwan, in this case, um valuing happiness was associated
with better outcomes and that was explained by this
more social focus.
Mhm So let me ask you then one final
question. S uh so at the very beginning of
this section of our conversation on happiness, you mentioned
that cross culturally, at least as far as we
know, it seems that uh everyone values happiness, uh
at least uh I mean to, to a higher
or lesser degree, it seems that everyone values happiness
out there. So uh I would like to ask
you because there are people that pick uh on
these results, like the ones that you mentioned there
about the paradoxical effects of valuing and seeking happiness
and they tweak them and say that the conclusion
then is that people should just ditch happiness, that
happiness shouldn't matter, that people should seek other things
in life. I mean, is that really warranted? I
mean, does that conclusion follow from the these results
on the paradoxical effects of valuing and seeking happiness?
That's a really great question. Um To some degree,
I wanna say yes, it's warranted. Um And like,
and that doesn't mean that um the, that we
should, uh, give up on happiness. Um, BUT it's
sort of one way to think about this is
that there's better ways to actually go about achieving
happiness and those ways go via just focus on
something else. So doesn't mean let's just be miserable
and wallow in our misery, but rather let's take
the focus away from happiness. And the cross cultural
research is sort of consistent with that. And so,
um the idea being engage in things, sometimes these
are called positive activities um that will make you,
that will have the downstream effect of making you
happy. Um And um interestingly dose might precisely be
the more social things that um I talked about
being with other people um expressing gratitude, loving kindness,
meditations. Um um um THOSE are actually uh some
of the most um sort of proven ways of
increasing well being in a lasting way. Um So,
um the conclusion I think is absolutely founded that
in a way, let's just ditch the direct focus
on happiness. Um But ironically, happiness um as it
moved, John Stuart Mill quote uh might just appear
as a side effect of uh focusing on these
other um pursuits and activities.
Mhm But, but perhaps I should have been a
little bit more specific here because I, I was
talking about people who say that we should ditch
happiness, but then to focus our efforts into, for
example, grinding at our work and stuff like that.
So perhaps that specifically is not so much of
a good uh piece of advice or is it?
No, I think that's a really bad piece of
advice. Um And uh I would definitely not want
the last word to be like start grinding in
your work. Um I think the uh but thank
you for clarifying that. I think that uh where
I was coming from is that um we should
not ditch happiness as an all ultimate and well
being as the ultimate goal for many people, but
we should ditch it as the direct um thing
that we're heading towards, right? But rather um direct
our attention towards some, some other things um with
the delightful side effect and the very much to
my mind wanted side effect um of um actually
ultimately increasing um happiness and well being uh for
people. So I don't think we wanna ditch that
as a goal. That's a little bit what I
meant by like, should we all just like wallow
in misery? Absolutely not. Um So as a um
goal, we don't wanna abandon it, but we, I
think want to rethink about how we go about
um and how single mindedly and how um worriedly
we go about pursuing uh pursuing it as a,
as a goal. Yeah.
Ok, great. So where can people find you and
your work on the internet?
Um So probably the best um place to look
me up is at UC Berkeley emotion and emotion
regulation lab. Um AND we're posting our, our work
there um and uh describe it. Um So that's
probably the best place to found it. E lab,
E er lab.
Great. So I'm leaving links to it in the
description box of the interview and Dr Mouse. Thank
you again so much for taking the time to
come on the show. It's been very fun to
talk with you.
Thank you so much. It's been a delightful conversation.
Hi guys. Thank you for watching this interview. Until
the end. If you liked it, please share it.
Leave a like and hit the subscription button. The
show is brought to you by the N Lights
learning and development. Then differently check the website at
N lights.com and also please consider supporting the show
on Patreon or paypal. I would also like to
give a huge thank you to my main patrons
and paypal supporters, Perera Larson, Jerry Muller and Frederick
Suno Bernard Seche O of Alex Adam, Castle Matthew
Whitten B are no wolf, Tim Ho Erica LJ
Conners, Philip Forrest Connelly. Then the Met Robert wine
in NAI Z Mark Nevs calling Hol Brookfield, Governor
Mikel Stormer Samuel Andre Francis for Agns Ferus and
H her meal and Lain Jung Y and the
Samuel K Hes Mark Smith J Tom Hummel Sran
David Sloan Wilson Yasa dear Ro Ro Diego, Jan
Punter, Romani, Charlotte bli, Nico Barba, Adam hunt Pavlo
Stassi Nale medicine, Gary G Alman Sam. Of Zal
Ari and YPJ Barboa, Julian Price Edward Hall, Eden
Broner Douglas Fry Franca Beto Lati Gilon Cortez Scott
Zftdw, Daniel Friedman, William Buckner, Paul Giorgio, Luke Loki,
Georgio Theophano Chris Williams and Peter Wo David Williams,
the Ausa Anton Erickson Charles Murray, Alex Shaw, Marie
Martinez, Coralie Chevalier, Bangalore Larry Dey, Junior, Old Ebon,
Starry Michael Bailey, then Spur by Robert Grassy Zorn,
Jeff mcmahon, Jake Zul Barnabas Radick, Mark Kempel, Thomas
Dvor Luke Neeson, Chris Tory Kimberley Johnson, Benjamin Gilbert
Jessica. No week, Linda Brendan Nicholas Carlson, Ismael Bensley
Man, George Katis, Valentine Steinman Perras, Kate Von Goler,
Alexander Abert Liam Dan Biar Masoud Ali Mohammadi Perpendicular
Jer Urla. Good enough, Gregory Hastings David Pins of
Sean Nelson, Mike Levin and Jos Net. A special
thanks to my producers, these our web, Jim Frank
Luca Stina, Tom Vig and Bernard N Cortes Dixon,
Benedikt Muller Thomas Trumbo Catherine and Patrick Tobin John
Carlman, Negro, Nick Ortiz and Nick Golden. And to
my executive producers, Matthew Lavender, Sergi Adrian Bogdan Knits
and Rosie. Thank you for all